OSDOCS-13228: container image sig checks MicroShift (#97585)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-verify-container-signatures-sigstore.adoc

.Procedure

. Download the relevant public key and save it as `/etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo curl -sL https://access.redhat.com/security/data/63405576.txt -o /etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub
----

. To configure the container runtime to verify images from Red Hat sources, edit the `/etc/containers/policy.json` file to contain the following configuration:

.Example policy JSON file
[source,json]
----
{
    "default": [
        {
            "type": "reject"
        }
    ],
    "transports": {
        "docker": {
            "quay.io/openshift-release-dev": [{
                "type": "sigstoreSigned",
                "keyPath": "/etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub",
                "signedIdentity": {
                    "type": "matchRepoDigestOrExact"
                }
            }],
            "registry.redhat.io": [{
                "type": "sigstoreSigned",
                "keyPath": "/etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub",
                "signedIdentity": {
                    "type": "matchRepoDigestOrExact"
                }
            }]
        }
    }
}
----

> . Configure your remote registries to use sigstore attachments when pulling images to the local storage, by editing the `/etc/containers/registries.d/registry.quay.io.yaml` file to contain the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure Red Hat remote registries to use sigstore attachments when pulling images to the local storage, by editing the `/etc/containers/registries.d/registry.quay.io.yaml` file to contain the following configuration:
```

> . Configure Red Hat remote registries to use sigstore attachments when pulling images to the local storage, by editing the `/etc/containers/registries.d/registry.quay.io.yaml` file to contain the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: The filename here doesn't match the example below.
registry.quay.io.yaml vs. registry.redhat.io.yaml

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat /etc/containers/registries.d/registry.redhat.io.yaml
docker:
     registry.redhat.io:
         use-sigstore-attachments: true
----

> . Configure Red Hat remote registries to use sigstore attachments when pulling images to the local storage, by editing the `/etc/containers/registries.d/registry.redhat.io.yaml` file to contain the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: The filename here doesn't match the example below.
registry.redhat.io.yaml vs. quay.io.yaml

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift/microshift_auth_security/microshift-verify-container-signatures.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-verify-container-signatures-sigstore_{context}"]
= Verifying container signatures using sigstore

Verify container signatures for {microshift-short} by configuring the container runtime to use sigstore. The container signature verification uses the public key from the Red Hat keypair when signing the images.

You can access Red Hat public keys at the following link:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/security/team/key[Product Signing Keys]

The release key 3 is used in the following example.
//Q: should we also be using key2, see "This key is used in addition to release key 2 for signing Red Hat products released after October 2024 and their updates."

.Prerequisites

* You have admin access to the {microshift-short} host.

.Procedure

. Download the relevant public key and save it as `/etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo curl -sL https://access.redhat.com/security/data/63405576.txt -o /etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub
----

> //Q: where did we get this file? does the release key generate it?

Reviewer: This file is installed as part of the container runtime package by default.

            }],
            "registry.redhat.io": [{
                "type": "sigstoreSigned",
                "keyPath": "/etc/containers/RedHat_ReleaseKey3.pub",
                "signedIdentity": {
                    "type": "matchRepoDigestOrExact"
                }
            }]
        }
    }
}
----

. Configure your remote registries to use sigstore attachments when pulling images to the local storage, by editing the `/etc/containers/registries.d/registry.quay.io.yaml` file to contain the following configuration:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat /etc/containers/registries.d/registry.redhat.io.yaml
docker:
     registry.redhat.io:
         use-sigstore-attachments: true
----

. Configure your remote registries to use sigstore attachments when pulling images to the local storage, by editing the `/etc/containers/registries.d/registry.redhat.io.yaml` file to contain the following configuration:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat /etc/containers/registries.d/quay.io.yaml
docker:
  quay.io/openshift-release-dev:
    use-sigstore-attachments: true
----

. Create user-specific registry configuration files if your use case requires signature verification for those image sources.

> //Q: link or guidance of some sort here?

Reviewer: The contents template is kind of demonstrate above. We can refer to these and it should be enough, I think.
